<div class="section" id="section.Includes"
     xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
     xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

    <div class="title">Creating modular documentation with XInclude</div>
    <div class="content">

        <p>
            When your Lemma documentation grows, you quickly realize that your master XHTML template
            file will grow large, too large to handle comfortably. You can use XInclude, an XML feature,
            to split your XHTML file into several smaller files.
        </p>

        <p>
            Let's assume your master template looks as follows:
        </p>

        <a class="citation" href="file://example/advanced/include/master.xhtml"/>

        <p>
            Note the additional namespace declaration on the root element. For any include instruction,
            you also have to specify the base directory. This is a relative location, depending on
            the current directory from which you execute the documentation build. (This should always
            be the same "current" directory when you use a build system such as Maven.)
        </p>

        <p>
            This is how an included file looks like:
        </p>

        <a class="citation" href="file://example/advanced/include/chapter02/index.xhtml"/>

        <p>
            Here, you can again declare the XInclude namespace and continue adding more fine-grained
            sections to your manual. You do not have to repeat the inclusion base anymore, only the
            "master" of your inclusion tree requires this. You have to explicitly declare a default
            namespace (the XHTML namespace) on the root element of each file, however.
        </p>

    </div>
</div>
