<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Introduction</title>
</head>

<body>

<div id="content-body">

    <h1>
        Lemma - creating valid software documentation
    </h1>

    <p>
        Lemma is an easy to use and powerful software documentation tool for Java developers.
        It enables automatic testing of all code snippets in your software's manual, using an
        innovative citation mechanism.
    </p>

    <p>
        Instead of copying and pasting code examples from your source into your text processor, you
        simply place a citation marker within your documentation text. Lemma will now find your tested
        source code, extract the lines you need, and insert them in the right place when you build
        your documentation.
    </p>

    <p>
        The source code Lemma is citing from is typically unit test source code. Therefore, all code
        examples in your documentation can be tested automatically. Stop writing anemic and artificial unit
        tests for your software - write real examples that are helpful to your users and include them
        automatically within your documentation.
    </p>

    <h2>
        Getting started
    </h2>

    <p>
        If you already use Maven to build your project and run unit tests, Lemma can be integrated in
        one minute.
    </p>

    <p>
        Assuming that your project's artifact identifier is <code>myproject</code>, create the
        file <code>src/manual/myproject-manual.xhtml</code> with the following content:
    </p>

     <pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>My Manual</title>
</head>

<body>

<div>
   <a class="citation" href="javadoc://com.myproject.MyUnitTest"/>
</div>

</body>
</html>]]></pre>

    <p>
        Now edit your <code>com.project.MyUnitTest</code> class - which should be located in your test
        source directory - and create a regular Javadoc comment on the class. Any Javadoc comment that is
        well-formed XHTML will work, and citation processing is recursive (you can add citation anchors
        everywhere):
    </p>

    <pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[package com.myproject;

/**
 * Some documentation
 * <p>
 * My text paragraph.
 * </p>
 * <a class="citation" href="javacode://this#someMethod()"/>
 */
public class MyUnitTest {

    public void someMethod() {
        ...
    }
}]]></pre>

    <p>
        Add the Lemma plugin repository to your <code>pom.xml</code>:
    </p>

    <pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[<pluginRepositories>
    <pluginRepository>
        <id>fourthline-repo</id>
        <url>http://4thline.org/m2</url>
        <snapshots>
            <enabled>false</enabled>
        </snapshots>
    </pluginRepository>
</pluginRepositories>]]></pre>

    <p>
        Next, start Lemma by executing the <code>manual</code> goal of the plugin:
    </p>

    <pre><![CDATA[myproject/$ mvn clean org.fourthline.lemma:lemma-maven-plugin:manual]]></pre>

    <p>
        You can now open your generated documentation in <code>target/manual/myproject-manual.xhtml</code>,
        use a webbrowser to display this file.
    </p>

    <p>
        If you want to know more, or if you <b>are not using Maven</b>, please continue reading
        the <a href="manual/lemma-manual.html">Lemma User Manual</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
        Lemma is Free Software, distributed under the terms of
        the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.txt">GNU Affero General Public License</a>.
    </p>

</div>

</body>
</html>
